docs - notes on actions (#29576)
metabase/metabase: docs/actions/custom.md

In the action editor, you can write your own code to create an action, like writing an action that would only update a subset of the columns in a table. See [Example actions](#example-custom-actions).

## Field types for action variables

For each {% raw %}{{ variable }}{% endraw %} that you set in an action, you'll need to set the field type.

Each of these variable field types present different options. Click on the gear icon to change options.

If you don't require a variable, you can optionally specify a default value for Metabase to use in cases where people don't fill out the field. In the SQL code, remember to enclose any optional variables and commas in brackets, like `{% raw %}[[, column = {{ optional_variable }}]] {% endraw %}`.

You can include placeholder text for all fields in the action form.

**Text**

- Text
- Long text
- Dropdown
- Inline select

**Number**

- Number
- Dropdown
- Inline select

**Date**

- Date
- Date + Time

For both **Dropdown** and **Inline select**, you can specify a list of options to present on the form, with each option on its own line.

![Dropdown select](./images/dropdown.png)

## Appearance

> The appearance tab in the action editor modal will display a preview of the variable's form element. In the image below, we've clicked on the variable'  **gears** and set the variable to use a text > dropdown list. The appearance section gives a preview for what the form element would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The appearance tab in the action editor modal will display a preview of the variable's form element. In the image below, we've clicked on the variable's **gear** and set the variable to use a text > dropdown list. The appearance section gives a preview for what the form element would look like:
```

![Appearance gives a preview of the form element](./images/appearance.png)

## Action settings

> From the model detail page, click on the **...** next to the action. Once in the action editor, click on the **gear** icon to bring up the action settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the model detail page, click on the **three dot menu** (...) next to the action. Once in the action editor, click on the **gear** icon to bring up the action settings.
```

Tiny thing: I've been writing out "three-dot menu" because ... makes me feel there's something being omitted in the middle of the sentence 🤷‍♀️
